I. Introduction
    As seem previously, an image can be minipulated by convolving it with various kernels. From noise minimizing with the gaussian kernel to edges detection with Prewitt kernels, information can be added, removed, or extracted from an image though the use of specific kernels. Thus, picking a correct kernel is a crucial step in performing a correct minipulation of an image. This paper will explore four other kernels and methods for extracting edges from an image including how they work, their advantages, and their limitations.     

II. Roberts Cross
    In computer vision, Roberts Cross is a method for detecting edges in grayscale images. It works by examining gradiant magnitude among adjacent and diagonal pixels which is a strong indication of edges. The gradiant magnitude can be calculated from points convolved from two special kernels [Kernels images]. Each kernel is tasked with detecting 45° edges in its respective orientation and the resulting convolved matrices represent the two components of gradiant magnitude. Thus, the gradiant magnitude can be represented as [insert G = sqrt(Gx^2 + Gy^2)] and the direction can be represented as [Ɵ = atan2(Gy, Gx)]. Fortunately, since the gradiant magnitude is always a positive value and its actual value does not affect the algorithm, the gradiant magnitude formula can be approximate as [|G| = |Gx| + |Gy|]. Last but not least, in pratice, it is common to approximate gradiant magnitude in a single operation with the following formula [G = [[P1,P2], [P3, P4]] and |G| = |P1-P4| + |P2-P3|]

III. Canny Edge Detector
    Canny Edge Detector is a multi-stage algorithm for detecting edges in grayscale images and it composed of five stages: noise reduction, gradiant calculation, non-maximum suppression, double threshold, and edge tracking with hysteresis. 
    
    As with most first derivative edges detection algorithm, Canny Edge Detector is sensitive to noises and thus, the algorithm starts by minimizing noises in an image through the use of blurring filters such as a mean filter, an average filter, or a Gaussian filter. 
    
    Then, the algorithm will utilize either a Prewitt filter, specialize in detecting edges in a horizontal or a vertical direction, or a Robert filter, specialize in detecting edges in diagonal directions, to generate the magnitude and the angle of the gradiant with the following approximation formulas [magnitude and angle formulas]. Since each pixel can only have up to eight neightbors, the gradiant angle will be round to one of the four angles: 0°, 45°, 90° and 135°. 

    Next, the algorithm will perform a non-maximum suppression on each pixel using the pixel's gradiant magnitude and gradiant angle. During this stage, each pixel will have its gradiant magnitude compare to its comparable neightbors that exist along the pixel's angle. For example, if a pixel has a gradiant angle of 45°, then its comparable neightbors are the top right pixel and the bottom left pixel. If a pixel has the highest gradiant magnitude when compare to its neightbor, the pixel's gradiant magnitude is preserved. But if a pixel does not have the highest gradiant magnitude when compare to its neightbor, the pixel's gradiant magnitude will be set to 0. [Picture of non-maximum suppression]

    Follow a non-maximum suppression stage is the double threshold stage. In this stage, all pixel will be classified into three categories: strong, weak, and irrelevant using two thresholds: high and low. If a pixel has a gradiant magnitude larger than the high threshold, it will be classify as strong pixel. Next, if a pixel has a gradiant magnitude between the high threshold and the low threshold, it will be classify as weak pixel. Last but not least, all other pixels will be classify as irrelevant pixel. 

    The final stage of Canny Edge Detector is edge tracking with hysteresis. For this stage, all weak pixels will reclassify as either a strong pixel or a irrelevant pixel. If a weak pixel has at least one of its neightbor as a strong pixel, it will be reclassify as a strong pixel. For other pixels that do not have a strong pixel as its neightbors, it will be reclassify as a irrelevant pixel. 

IV. Difference of Gaussians
    Difference of Gaussians is a feature enhancement algorithm that take advantages of two blurred images convolved from two different gaussian kernels. The algorithm starts by generating two gaussian kernels from two different sigma where sigma 1 is less than sigma 2. Then, the original image will be convolved by the two gaussian kernels to create two convolved image. Finally, a new image is produced from the difference of the two convolved images where pixels with intensity difference closer to 0 indicate low frequency areas and pixels with intensity difference significantly larger than 0 indicate high frequency areas [Insert Difference of Gaussian Picture]. It shound be noted that pixel intensity difference can be a negative number. Such a scenario can be handle in two ways: set all negative numbers to 0 or scale the entire image such that its starting value is 0. Last but not least, Difference of Gaussians can also be refer to as a band-pass filter since it suppress high frequency spatial information with gaussian bluring and low frequency spatial information with subtration.   

V. Laplacian of Gaussian
   Laplacian of Gaussian is a second derrivative filter for detecting edges. Unlike first derrivative filters which relies on local maximum to detect edges, Laplacian of Gaussian relies on zero crossing where a gradiant magnitude of the second derrivative cross 0 [Insert first and second derivative image]. The Laplacian of Gaussian kernel can be calculated with the following formula [LOG formula]   
   
   This apporach of finding edges has its own advantage and disadvantage. For the advantage, Laplacian of Gaussian tend to performs better than first directive filters at finding edges since it is hypersensitive to spike in pixel's intensity. However, due to its sensitive, Laplacian of Gaussian also performs poorly on images with a lot of noise. Thus, it is recommended that any image should have its noise minimize before being process by this filter.  
   
VI.Final Thought
   Robert Cross, Canny Edge Detector, Difference of Gaussian, and Laplacian of Gaussian are kernels or methods that designed to detect edges in an a grayscale image. While all of them perform well in various circumstance, none of them are a universally correct choice. As such, it is important that one should examining the datesets and pick a kernel or a method that perform well for such datesets. 


